- [Instructor] So we now have a bucket,
so let's start working with some single-file operations.
All right, rephrase back to this point here.
Working with files is really as simple as creating buckets.
But first of all, let's start with some files.
So I'm going to make a directory on my desktop,
just call it S3, and I'll navigate there.
Once I'm here I'm going to create these files.
Now I'm going to do them kind of in a cheating way,
I'm going to echo out some data
into a file and I'm going to call it lil1.txt,
and I'm going to do the same thing to create file two.
So now you'll see I've got two files in this directory.
Now the copy command, or C-P,
works very much the same way it does on Linux.
It will take a local file or a file from one bucket
and copy it to an S3 bucket or back into
your local file system depending on the order
in which you execute these operations.
It is important to note, we can go from S3 bucket
to S3 bucket if we need to.
So in order to do this we are going to type
AWS S3, C-P, for copy, do our lil1 file,
and then we need to specify the bucket
that we want to copy this to.
So I'm going to select F-P-M lil which is
the bucket that I created previously,
go ahead and execute that command,
you'll see that it uploads that bucket.
Let's jump into our console, select our bucket,
and you'll see that our file is indeed available there.
Let's go back to our terminal,
we're going to take a look at the move command.
So if I do an L-S on my directory
you'll see that I have both of my files here.
Let's do an AWS S3 M-V for move, lil2 out to S3,
F-P-M lil, and now we've executed that move command.
So if I do an L-S here locally,
you'll see that that file is now gone.
If I go to the console and refresh my view,
the file is however uploaded into that location,
and that's really, really good because I can move them
if I don't need to keep them locally,
so I don't have to execute two commands
to copy it and then delete it.
So let's jump back over to our terminal.
And what I want you to do is now move them in reverse.
So this time we are going to type AWS, S3, M-V,
from S3 colon slash slash F-P-M lil slash lil2.txt.
So we're going to remove that remote file
into our local directory.
And again, the move has occurred,
so if I L-S here, you'll see that both files exist,
if I jump back into the console and I refresh,
the file from the bucket itself is gone.
Again, we just moved files from one direction to the other,
and it just depends on the order
in which you put them in the command.
Let's jump back to the terminal one more time.
So we've copied, we've moved files,
how about we just want to remove it?
We just want to get rid of it completely?
We can do that by doing an AWS, S3 R-M command,
type in S3 colon colon, F-P-M lil, slash lil1.txt.
It's going to get us an indication that it's been deleted.
Jump back in our console, refresh our view,
our bucket is empty.
Go back to our terminal real quick,
and I want you to execute that same command.
So AWS, S3 R-M, and then our full path.
You will see it still says delete.
It gives you no indication that
that remote file didn't exist.
Just something to think about, it's a little caveat,
it doesn't show a 404, it just says,
"Hey, the file's been deleted",
it's idempotent, you delete it multiple times,
you get the same result, and regardless, the file is gone.
Now the R-M command has some options,
and one of those is a recursive delete.
I encourage you to take a look at this documentation
out on Amazon's website.
The link is displayed here so that you can
take a look at how those switches work.
Once again I want to reiterate,
that even though we're working with local file system
and remote file system,
we can copy between multiple buckets.
And we'll do that at a later point in time.
I do want to point out that you can also rename
your files on a copy or move.
We're going to do one more set of operations here.
So we'll do an AWS, S3, C-P lil1.txt
to S3 colon slash slash F-P-M lil,
again, replace that bucket name as needed,
and this time we're going to call it lilmod1.txt.
Go ahead and hit enter, jump back into your console,
refresh your view, and there it is with the new file name.
Because just like in Linux if I copy a file,
I can always rename it.
For now, we'll just select this guy, and we will delete him,
and we are good to go.
This is really the basics of the file concepts
that you can do with an AWS S3,
but again, it's just the basics,
you have a lot more behavior,
so take a look at that documentation.